docs/pages/Functions/functions.markdown, before:

---
layout: page
title: Functions
permalink: /functions
nav_order: 7
---

# Functions

A collection of potentially useful functions within the `Litho` object. You can explore on your own too — just don't break things and know that, generally, items prefixed with or buried under `_`s are meant to be more private/readonly.

### addLayer()

Adds a new layer to the globe.
`addLayer = (type: string, layerObj: any, callback?: Function): void`

type | _string_ | Type of layer to add. | One of ['tile', 'tile3d', 'clamped', 'vector', 'model', ...]
layerObj | _object_ | The new layer's object | See layer type docs for examples
callback | _Function_ | Called when a layer finishes loading (i.e. a vector layer downloads its geojson) | Not all layer types support this

### removeLayer()

Removes an existing layer from the globe.
`removeLayer = (name: string): boolean`

name | _string_ | Layer name to remove
_returns_ | _boolean_ | `true` only if layer was found and removed

### toggleLayer()

`toggleLayer = (name: string, on?: boolean): boolean`

### setLayerOpacity()

`setLayerOpacity = (name: string, opacity: number): boolean`

### setLayerFilterEffect()

Sets a tile layer's filter effects. Multiple filters can be applied at once. The possible filter effects are:

-   brightness (default 1.0)
-   saturation (default 1.0)
-   contrast (default 1.0)
-   blendCode (default 0)  
    0: Blending off  
    1: An overlay blend  
    2: A color blend

`setLayerFilterEffect = (name: string, filter: string, value: number): boolean`

_name_ | _string_ | Name of the tile layer to apply a filter to
_filter_ | _string_ | Filter name to apply | One of ['brightness', 'saturation', 'contrast', 'blendCode']
_value_ | _string_ | The value to set the filter to
_returns_ | _boolean_ | `true` only if layer was found and filtered upon

### getLayerByName()

`getLayerByName = (layerName: string): any`

### hasLayer()

`hasLayer = (layerName: string): boolean`

### addControl()

`addControl = (name: string, control: any, params?: object, corner?: Corners): any`

### removeControl()

`removeControl = (name): void`

Commit message:

#20 Fix curtain jitter and vertical exag and offset options

docs/pages/Functions/functions.markdown, after:

---
layout: page
title: Functions
permalink: /functions
nav_order: 7
---

# Functions

A collection of potentially useful functions within the `Litho` object. You can explore on your own too — just don't break things and know that, generally, items prefixed with or buried under `_`s are meant to be more private/readonly.

### addLayer()

Adds a new layer to the globe.
`addLayer = (type: string, layerObj: any, callback?: Function): void`

type | _string_ | Type of layer to add. | One of ['tile', 'tile3d', 'clamped', 'vector', 'model', ...]
layerObj | _object_ | The new layer's object | See layer type docs for examples
callback | _Function_ | Called when a layer finishes loading (i.e. a vector layer downloads its geojson) | Not all layer types support this

### removeLayer()

Removes an existing layer from the globe.
`removeLayer = (name: string): boolean`

name | _string_ | Layer name to remove
_returns_ | _boolean_ | `true` only if layer was found and removed

### toggleLayer()

`toggleLayer = (name: string, on?: boolean): boolean`

### setLayerOpacity()

`setLayerOpacity = (name: string, opacity: number): boolean`

### setLayerFilterEffect()

Sets a tile layer's filter effects. Multiple filters can be applied at once. The possible filter effects are:

-   brightness (default 1.0)
-   saturation (default 1.0)
-   contrast (default 1.0)
-   blendCode (default 0)  
    0: Blending off  
    1: An overlay blend  
    2: A color blend

`setLayerFilterEffect = (name: string, filter: string, value: number): boolean`

_name_ | _string_ | Name of the tile layer to apply a filter to
_filter_ | _string_ | Filter name to apply | One of ['brightness', 'saturation', 'contrast', 'blendCode']
_value_ | _string_ | The value to set the filter to
_returns_ | _boolean_ | `true` only if layer was found and filtered upon

### setLayerSpecificOptions()

Changes and applies a layers options object dynamically. The `options` parameter is merged with the existing layer's options object (it's not a full replacement). Not all layer types support options.

`setLayerSpecificOptions = (name: string, options: object): boolean`

### getLayerByName()

`getLayerByName = (layerName: string): any`

### hasLayer()

`hasLayer = (layerName: string): boolean`

### addControl()

`addControl = (name: string, control: any, params?: object, corner?: Corners): any`

### removeControl()

`removeControl = (name): void`
